# SergeyTheGuy portfolio projects repository
## [MySQL projects](MySQL_projects)
MySQL is a special tool that was designed to operate massive datasets with ease and convenience. In my personal opinion, MySQL is absolutely out of this world, it has a rather straightforward syntax and enables one get access to required information in few queries. MySQL query writting skills are transferable since the syntax is quite similar with other SQL servers (PGadmin, Microsoft SQL Server, etc.). Therefore, MySQL is an absolute live-saver for any data analyst. This repository major goal is to master MySQL syntax and complex database management by doing personal projects of various difficulty.

## [Python Projects](Python_projects)
Python is one of the easiest programming languages to learn and has a great many applications, one of which is the data analysis. Python has mathematical and data analysis packages (e.g., numpy and pandas) that allow data analyst easily working with the data, retrieving major trends and visualising them with help of MatPlotLib, HVPlot, and other visualisation packages. The repository is fully dedicated to my efforts to explore, learn, and utilise the potential of Python in the field of data analytics. 

## [Excel projects](EXCEL_projects)
MS Excel is considered as a basic tool for performing data analysis. It's simple to learn and use. It can be used at the to perform a wide range of tasks, from collecting and storing the data to visualising and presenting. Excel also offers a wide range of methematical and analytical tools to carry out data optimisation and analysis. Therefore, MS Excel is a tool that should definitely be in must-know-and-can-do skillset package of any data analyst. Projects in this repository are aimed on learning Excel potential for the purposes of data analysis.
